hey this is Pam Daenerys thank you for
tuning in to my channel b2b marketing
and more with me and this is the place I
want to help you to become a better b2b
marketer I share my experience my
templates might know-how and to help you
to think strategically and do your job
better hopefully by doing that you can
get promoted faster for today I want to
talk about messaging framework it's
going to be a series of episodes for
this specific topic and today is part
one and I want to talk about what is
messaging framework and what are the
steps that you can take to create a
solid messaging framework right and
there are four steps you need to talk to
your product team you need to use the
templates to gather their feedback
number three you need to solicit
feedback from yourselves and customers
and after several rounds of revisions
the last step is finalize it with legal
teams and also the product team's
approval right I will talk a little bit
more about the steps so what is a
messaging framework well a messaging
framework is a structured representation
of your products or services unique
promises and differentiations
again a messaging framework is a
structural representation of your
products and services unique promises
and differentiation
alright why is that important well from
my perspective there's one main benefit
its consistency it's pretty much a
baseline that the pr external marketing
communication and also sales engagement
can use right so it's a master document
everybody can go to if they want to talk
about specific products they know what
to say of course everything we say is
kind of situational but is kind of
document that will guide people with to
talk about the products and the services
they offer right so consistency is the
key benefit but there are many hidden
benefits so I have done
to poll messaging frameworks for
different clients and the hidden benefit
for me specifically is it helps me to
understand my clients products so much
better and by doing a research I get a
chance to understand competitors
products as well and on top of it doing
research reading a lot of information
and collateral I get a chance to know a
list of keywords I can use if I create
content right so all of the sudden you
understand your products so much better
and you know a list of keywords that you
can use you also understand how
competitors position themselves and all
this information can help on content
planning content creation editorial
planning as well so now let's talk about
the steps that you can take to create a
messaging framework number one engage
with your product team obviously when
the products are technical we marketers
don't know a lot of the details the
nitty-gritty details of our products as
much as the subject matter expert right
they are in the trenches day in and day
out they know the products so much
better than we do right so it's very
important to actually have a
conversation with them and dig into
their heads try to get the information
out of them having conversation with
them and have them explain the technical
features to you then is a marketers job
to translate that in plain English so we
can explain it to our end users and also
target audience number two use a
template to gather that information I
will be talking about the templates in
part two right but remember the key
things is used a template to document
the product the subject matter experts
point of view and also the technical
features vary in mind that messaging
framework is not copywriting you need to
actually use information or the wors to
reflect the technical benefits and the
product features and the user benefit
accurately don't worry about and you
have to sugarcoat and use magic words no
use a plain English to document what you
hear from
your subject matter expert like I said
we present on document the information
accurately that's a key point right and
then the copywriters can take whatever
you have and sprinkle the magic to come
up with a much fancier way to explain
this the benefits but it's not your job
full messaging framework does that make
sense number three is to test your
messaging framework with the sales team
and the customers it's important to go
through the draft of the messaging
framework with sales team get your
feedback test that information with them
obviously they understand our customers
very well sting knows the pain points
and challenges so they will look at your
messaging framework to see if it's
actually resonate with your customers
and if you have a budget I would suggest
that you test that with a couple of the
customers as well right and even doing
a/b testing online that will be very
helpful but again that can be budget
dependent and once you go through
several rounds of the revisions you'll
get a feedback from the customers to get
the feedback from the sales team and you
need to go back and revise it right then
you have another revision once you have
a knowledge draft you have to review
that with the product team again and
sometimes that your product is technical
and it requires some performance
information or benchmark benchmarking
information to substantiate your claim
if that's the case you also need to
review with the legal team and if you do
review with the legal team from time to
time they also have a suggestion in
terms of rewards that you need to use
then you have to change that again
obviously the steps even though I
described before very distinctive steps
that is not as linear as you think right
so here are three big takeaways number
want messaging framework is the pre
looped of the content creation
storytelling and the creative
development it also provide a benefit of
consistency for different organization
who are engaging with our customers and
analysts and also target audience right
it's a sense of consistency and that you
can share and number two there are four
steps from the time
you engage with your product team use a
document to create a messaging framework
and test that with your sales and the
customers down to getting approval from
your product and the legal team so these
are the four steps number three the
whole process is not straightforward
there's a lot of going back and forth
back and forth so what does that tell
you it tells you that the messaging
framework takes time to create so you
need to start early if you have a big
product launch granted the reality is
that the product team probably will not
finalize all the product features until
like couple weeks before the product
launch trust me
I ran into that situation in the past
but that doesn't mean that you can't
start early you know stay side by side
with them and they've got to be some key
features key features that will be
included as a part of your product
launch right but they are some secondary
features or some features that that the
subject matter expert needs to determine
or prioritize what works that's okay
right so stay side by side with them
that doesn't mean that you know they
have to finish their work first and you
can start yours in theory that will be
perfect but in reality you just need to
work in parallel I hope that you enjoyed
today's episode it's probably not a
topic that I apply to everybody but from
my perspective messaging framework is
super super important I hope you would
tune in next week I will be talking
about part 2 of the messaging framework
which is a template I want to share with
you okay if you like the content
subscribe load or share with a friend
who can benefit I would really
appreciate that it means a lot to me I
hope to see you next week bye